>> Mike North: So this is another very,
very important section in terms of
forming the right mental model
about how TypeScript works.
And I've titled the declaration merging,
but this we're gonna look a lot,
look deeply into how Visual Studio
codes' ToolTips provide us with
information that we can use to figure
out whether some thing's of value,
whether some thing's a type.
>> Mike North: Additionally, this helps
us understand how we can put put little
fixes on top of libraries or
imperfect type information, or
maybe you want to prototype something and
types don't exist for it yet.
This helps you augment some of
the existing type information in your app.
So let's look at Section 8 of the notes.
>> Mike North: In TypeScript app,
identifiers and just think of these as
things that you could export, internally
types script to call these symbols.
Identifiers can be associated
with up to three things.
A value, a type or namespace.
A namespace we haven't talked about yet,
but it's pretty simple in
that it's sort of like an object in
that it has a type and it has a value.
So in this situation we could do baz.biz.
It's just sort of a collection
of stuff all merged together.
Not really worth covering on its own, and
increasingly less popular as
a tool to describe things.
So I'm gonna show you how, given a symbol,
you can test whether it
can be used as a type.
And we've already been doing this.
Sorry, we're gonna test for a value first,
and this is very intuitive.
You should be able to complete
an assignment of some sort.
If it's a value,
a variable should be able to hold it.
If you get a type error here,
something is wrong.
Let's try it with the interface.
>> Mike North: No good.
Bar only refers to a type but
it's used as a value here, so
this is an effective test to
see if something is a value.
How to test if something is a type?
Try to use it as a type, try to use it on
the left-hand side of an equals, or if
it's a left you don't even have to do that
>> Mike North: So
if you can do that successfully,
bar can be regarded as type.
To test whether something is
associated with a namespace,
you're gonna have to rely on ToolTips for
that.
>> Mike North: And just note that all
three of these things are importable and
exportable.
There's our interface.
There's our value,
>> Mike North: And there's our namespace.
So now, we kind of have the tests
we can apply to things,
to figure out what's going on.
So functions and variables,
they are purely values.
You can only extract the type
of a value using a type query.
>> Mike North: Interfaces are only types.
If we try to complete an assignment here,
we get the same error
we were seeing above.
Address only refers to a type, and
is being used as a value here.
Classes, this is where
things get interesting,
they pass both the value and the type
tests, and here's what is going on.
On one hand, a class is a factory
to produce instances, right?
It has a constructor.
It has a prototype.
Recently I think JavaScript,
you can even do this now.
>> Mike North: We can have static members,
right?
Where we can access this
right off of the class.
>> Mike North: So this is all associated
with the factory of instances.
On the other hand, using this as a type
describes the instances themselves.
It can be used as almost like
an interface for the instance.
So we can see this symbol
contact works in both positions.
Up here we can capture the class itself.
Down here we can use it as a type.
So it kind of occupies both slots.
>> Mike North: When declarations have
the same name they kinda all stack on top
of each other, and
if you arrange things just the right way,
mainly you don't have values
that collide with other values.
You can end up with something
that looks like this,
where when we export album,
and look at this tool tip,
this is a value, a type, and a namespace,
all stacked on top of each other,
all riding along on the same symbol.
This is where,
like I don't want you to gloss over
the information in your ToolTips.
This tells you a lot, this tells you,
it's a class, there's an interface
of the same name that augments that
class and there's a namespace.
So we could pass the type test here and
that is to, we wouldn't even need
the interface in order to do that cuz
the class has a type in and of itself.
The interface just merges
on top of the class, and
that means that if we had
another album here, a new album,
and then al2 dot, we can see that the
interface has added this property artist.
This is what you do is if
someone has forgotten t
add something in type information for
a library.
You could through an interface
kind of stack on top of that, and
it applies globally
through your entire app.
So there's only sort of one scope for
where type information is held.
It's not on a per module basis,
it is holistically throughout the app.
>> Speaker 2: Even without importing or
exporting it?
>> Mike North: Even without importing or
exporting, what is that?
>> Speaker 2: If you do
an override in your level, but
you imported from outside somewhere,
you're saying it's still appwide?
>> Mike North: Yes, the modification
you make will happen appwide.
And this is important because
you might wanna make all of your
modifications in one file, and
then have that, take a fact elsewhere.
There are certain things like types for
globals, that would be really inconvenient
to try to import and re-export
because there's no concept of that.
Good examples that would jQuery or
Mocha, which it makes describe in it,
those are global functions that you
don't have to exclusively import.
>> Mike North: So namespaces, they have
kind of their own spot in that we can
see on this ToolTip a namespace is
neither a class nor an interface, right?
It's its own thing and
it's part of this thing being exported.
They can be merged with classes or
functions.
So here's an example of a class where
we can see we've got address book.
And what we're doing here,
this is equivalent to what some
languages would call an inner
class where you've got sort of,
you have a class that is namespace
with respect to a parent class.
So when we call our new,
we're having to say addressBook.ABContact.
>> Mike North: The reason that this is
allowed is because a namespace serves
to sort of tack things onto something,
right?
It's just tacking AB
contact onto address book.
And there's not ambiguous syntax here.
Address book is only something
that can be invoked, right?
Cuz the constructor is a function.
So if we were to introduce a collision,
we'd run into problems like this.
So now we've got two things.
Like addressbook.ABContact.
Is it a string?
Is it a class?
Something's got to get resolved here.
But it like, it is largely
the static side of this class.
>> Mike North: Similarly, because it works
with classes, we can expect that it will
work for functions and
classes are just functions, right?
They're factories.
We invoke classes by
using the new keyword.
And so
similarly we can use format this way.
But we've also stored this currency
which is used inside format, right?.
So it can kind of reference
the namespace here.
And there is no collision here.
We either invoke the function or
we use some of these things that
we've tacked onto the function.
>> Mike North: In terms of the things I
want you to takeaway with from my mental
model perspective,
knowing what's the type and
knowing what's the value,
will take you a long way.
And knowing what can be augmented
interfaces versus knowing what
you kinda have to leave alone when
their defined in types, values.
So once you have a value like it's hard,
you can't overwrite that because that
would conflict with the way JavaScript
behaves, when interfaces are fair game.